set configuration commit
========================

set configuration commit

Function
--------



The **set configuration commit** command sets a user label for a configuration rollback point.

The **clear configuration commit** command deletes a user label for a configuration rollback point.



By default, no user label is set for configuration commit.


Format
------

**set configuration commit** *commit-id* **label** *label-string*

**clear configuration commit** *commit-id* **label**


Parameters
----------

| Parameter | Description | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *commit-id* | Specifies the ID of a configuration rollback point. | The id is a string of 1 to 20 characters and generated by the system automatically. |
| **label** *label-string* | Specifies a user label for a configuration rollback point.  The parameter value must be unique in the system and in one-to-one mappings with commit-id. | The value is a string of 1 to 256 case-sensitive characters. It can be any visible ASCII character except for the space. However, the string can contain spaces if it is enclosed with double quotation marks (" "). The string cannot start with a digit or be a hyphen (-).  The user label of the configuration rollback point must be unique in the system and in one-to-one mapping with the rollback point ID. |



Views
-----

User view


Default Level
-------------

2: Configuration level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**

* After a configuration rollback point is generated, the system automatically allocates an ID for this configuration rollback point. The rollback point ID is an integer that ranges from 1000000001 to 1999999999, which is difficult to understand and remember. When the number of configuration rollback points that are automatically generated by the system reaches the upper threshold, earliest configuration rollback points are replaced by latest configuration rollback points. For some important configurations, however, the related configuration rollback points need to be retained. In this case, you can run the set configuration commit command to specify a user label for a configuration rollback point, which is easy to understand and remember and ensures that configuration rollback points related to important configurations are not replaced.
* You can specify a user label when you run the commit command to generate a rollback point. After a rollback point is generated, you can run the **set configuration commit label** command to set a user label for the rollback point. For continuous configuration rollback points with labels, you cannot directly modify the labels. You must run the **clear configuration commit label** command to delete the labels of the configuration rollback points first and then run the **set configuration commit label** command to specify user labels for the configuration rollback points.
* You can run the **clear configuration commit label** command to delete the configured labels. After a configuration rollback point is deleted, its label is deleted accordingly.

**Follow-up Procedure**

Run the **display configuration commit list** command to view information about the user label for a configuration rollback point.Run the **display configuration commit list** command to display the configuration commit label information.

**Precautions**

If the set configuration commit command is run several times, the latest configuration overwrites the previous configuration.


Example
-------

# Delete the user label named new\_label for the configuration rollback point with the ID of 1000000002.
```
<HUAWEI> clear configuration commit 1000000002 label

```

# Set the label new\_label for configuration commit ID 1000000002.
```
<HUAWEI> set configuration commit 1000000002 label new_label

```