ip direct-routing-table local-host-route advertise enable
=========================================================

ip direct-routing-table local-host-route advertise enable

Function
--------



The **ip direct-routing-table local-host-route advertise enable** command enables a directly connected interface to advertise IPv4 host routes.

The **undo ip direct-routing-table local-host-route advertise enable** command disables a directly connected interface from advertising IPv4 host routes.



By default, IPv4 host routes of directly connected interfaces are not advertised.


Format
------

**ip direct-routing-table local-host-route advertise enable**

**undo ip direct-routing-table local-host-route advertise enable**


Parameters
----------

None

Views
-----

System view


Default Level
-------------

2: Configuration level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**



By default, after a routing protocol imports an IPv4 host route from a directly connected interface, the routing protocol only stores the route in the routing table and does not advertise it. If IPv4 host routes need to be advertised, run the **ip direct-routing-table local-host-route advertise enable** command to enable the IPv4 host route advertisement function on the directly connected interface.



**Precautions**



The host route of the directly connected interface mentioned in this command refers to the host route generated by configuring the network segment route on the interface. Host routes with 32-bit masks configured on interfaces are not included.




Example
-------

# Enable IPv4 host route advertisement on directly connected interfaces.
```
<HUAWEI> system-view
[~HUAWEI] ip direct-routing-table local-host-route advertise enable

```