timer lsp-max-age (IS-IS view)
==============================

timer lsp-max-age (IS-IS view)

Function
--------



The **timer lsp-max-age** command configures the maximum Keepalive time of an LSP generated by the current IS-IS process.

The **undo timer lsp-max-age** command restores the default value.



By default, the maximum Keepalive time of an LSP is 1200 seconds.


Format
------

**timer lsp-max-age** *max-age-value*

**undo timer lsp-max-age**


Parameters
----------

| Parameter | Description | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *max-age-value* | Specifies the maximum Keepalive time of an LSP. | The value ranges from 2 to 65535 seconds. |



Views
-----

IS-IS view


Default Level
-------------

2: Configuration level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**

When generating the system LSP, a device fills in the maximum Keepalive time for this LSP. When other devices receive this LSP, the Keepalive time of the LSP is reduced continuously. If a device does not receive the update LSP, the Keepalive time of the LSP is reduced to 0, the LSP is kept for 60 seconds. If a new LSP is not received in 60 seconds, the device deletes the LSP.The **timer lsp-max-age** command can adjust the maximum Keepalive time of an LSP to ensure the validity of old LSPs before the refreshed LSPs are received.

**Prerequisites**

Before running the **timer lsp-max-age** command, run the **isis** command to create an IS-IS process.

**Configuration Impact**

If the maximum Keepalive time of an LSP is configured too short, the LSP may be lost.

**Precautions**

The maximum Keepalive time of an LSP must be longer than the LSP refresh interval configured by timer lsp-refresh. Otherwise, the LSP cannot be updated before being deleted.


Example
-------

# Set the maximum Keepalive time of the LSP that is generated by the current IS-IS process to 25 minutes, that is, 1500 seconds.
```
<HUAWEI> system-view
[~HUAWEI] isis
[*HUAWEI-isis-1] timer lsp-max-age 1500

```