dual-active detection delay
===========================

dual-active detection delay

Function
--------



The **dual-active detection delay** command sets the dual-active detection delay upon failure of the peer-link.

The **undo dual-active detection delay** command restores the default dual-active detection delay upon failure of the peer-link.



By default, the dual-active detection delay upon failure of the peer-link is 3 seconds.


Format
------

**dual-active detection delay** *delaytime*

**undo dual-active detection delay** *delaytime*


Parameters
----------

| Parameter | Description | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *delaytime* | Dual-active detection delay upon failure of the peer-link. | The value is an integer that ranges from 0 to 10000, in milliseconds. The value must be a multiple of 100. The default value is 3000. |



Views
-----

DFS group view


Default Level
-------------

2: Configuration level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**

If the peer-link fails but the DAD heartbeat status is normal, accelerated DAD is triggered immediately and three DAD packets are separately sent at intervals of 200 ms. As a result, exceptions occur in the following scenarios:

* If the peer-link fails because the master device restarts unexpectedly, interfaces on the backup device are triggered to enter the Error-Down state. As a result, both the master and backup devices are abnormal.

To solve the preceding problem, when the peer-link fails but the DAD heartbeat status is normal, three DAD packets are separately sent at intervals of 200 ms after the DAD delay (3s by default). This prevents DAD acceleration from being incorrectly triggered and prevents interfaces on the backup device from entering the Error-Down state.

**Precautions**

* When both M-LAG and BFD are configured, set delaytime to a value less than 1s to prevent BFD session flapping upon failure of the peer-link.
* In an M-LAG multicast traffic forwarding scenario, set delaytime to a value less than 1s to reduce excess multicast packets upon failure of the peer-link.
* If the DFS configuration exists and the **dual-active detection delay** command is not supported before an upgrade, a configuration with delaytime being 3000 is generated by default after the upgrade.


Example
-------

# Set the dual-active detection delay upon failure of the peer-link.
```
<HUAWEI> system-view
[~HUAWEI] dfs-group 1
[*HUAWEI-dfs-group-1] dual-active detection delay 100

```