Adjusting the Minimum TTL Value for Multicast Forwarding
========================================================

Multicast information of each multicast group on a network should be transmitted within a specific range. Therefore, setting the minimum TTL value for multicast forwarding is necessary for limiting the multicast data forwarding scope.

#### Usage Scenario

Setting the minimum TTL value for multicast forwarding on an interface to limit the distance to which a packet is forwarded. The interface forwards only the packets (including those generated by the local device) with the TTL value being greater than or equal to the minimum TTL value. If the TTL value of a packet is smaller than the minimum TTL value, the interface discards the packet.


#### Pre-configuration Tasks

Before adjusting the minimum TTL value for multicast forwarding, complete the following tasks:

* Configure a unicast routing protocol to ensure that unicast routes are reachable.
* Configure basic multicast functions.

#### Procedure

1. Run [**system-view**](cmdqueryname=system-view)
   
   
   
   The system view is displayed.
2. Run [**interface**](cmdqueryname=interface) *interface-type* *interface-number*
   
   
   
   The interface view is displayed.
3. Run [**multicast minimum-ttl**](cmdqueryname=multicast+minimum-ttl) *ttl-value*
   
   
   
   The minimum TTL value for multicast forwarding is set.
4. Run [**commit**](cmdqueryname=commit)
   
   
   
   The configuration is committed.

#### Checking the Configurations

Run the [**display multicast**](cmdqueryname=display+multicast) [ **vpn-instance** *vpn-instance-name* | **all-instance** ]  **minimum-ttl** *interface-type* *interface-number* command to check the minimum TTL value for multicast forwarding on an interface.