Configuring IP FPM End-to-End Performance Statistics Collection
===============================================================

IP Flow Performance Measurement (FPM) end-to-end performance statistics collection measures packet loss and delay on the entire network so that carriers can quickly respond to resolve network issues if network performance deteriorates.

#### Usage Scenario

The NE40E supports proactive and on-demand IP FPM end-to-end performance measurement. These functions apply to different scenarios:

* Proactive performance measurement applies when you want to monitor network performance in real time. After you configure this function, the system continuously implements performance measurement on the packet loss or delay.
* On-demand performance measurement applies when you want to diagnose network faults or monitor network performance over a specified period. After you configure this function, the system periodically implements performance measurement on the packet loss or delay.

The packet loss and delay data obtained through IP FPM end-to-end performance measurement provides a reliable reference for network O&M. Network administrators can diagnose network faults based on the data and adjust user services in a timely manner to ensure network reliability and improve user experience.


#### Pre-configuration Tasks

Before configuring IP FPM end-to-end performance statistics collection, complete the following tasks:

* Configure a dynamic routing protocol or static routes so that devices are reachable at the network layer.
* Configure NTP or 1588v2 to synchronize clocks of all devices on the network.


[Configuring an MCP](../../../../software/nev8r10_vrpv8r16/user/vrp/dc_vrp_ipfpm_cfg_0006.html)

A Measurement Control Point (MCP) collects statistics reported by Data Collecting Points (DCPs), summarizes and calculates the statistics, and reports measurement results to user terminals or the network management system (NMS).

[Configuring a DCP](../../../../software/nev8r10_vrpv8r16/user/vrp/dc_vrp_ipfpm_cfg_0007.html)

A Data Collecting Point (DCP) manages and controls Target Logical Ports (TLPs), collects statistics generated by TLPs, and reports the statistics to a Measurement Control Point (MCP).

[Checking the Configurations](../../../../software/nev8r10_vrpv8r16/user/vrp/dc_vrp_ipfpm_cfg_0008.html)

After configuring the MCP, DCPs, and TLPs, check the IP FPM end-to-end performance statistics collection function.