Overview of Fault Management
============================

Overview of Fault Management

#### Definition

The fault management (FM) function manages alarms generated by devices in a centralized manner and provides guaranteed alarm reporting. It monitors the operating status of devices and networks in real time and records abnormalities, analyzes the abnormalities, and determines whether to generate and report alarms. This feature also enables a device to report alarms to notify users of faults, so that users can take measures to isolate and rectify faults for service recovery.


#### Purpose

With the expansion of network scale and increase of network complexity, when a device module is faulty, a large number of alarms may be generated on one or more devices. The devices and NMS, however, may not be able to process all alarms, resulting in loss of alarms during alarm transmission. If the alarms that users are concerned about are lost, network management will be difficult. To resolve this issue, a more intelligent and effective FM mechanism is required to implement the following improvements:

* Fewer alarms generated
  
  To prevent alarm loss and ensure that valuable fault information can be collected quickly, you can configure alarm severities, alarm suppression, and delayed alarm reporting on devices before these devices report alarms.
* Guaranteed alarm reporting
  
  The internal reliability mechanism of the devices ensures that alarms are displayed promptly and reliably to support quick and accurate fault locating and diagnosis.