as-notation plain
=================

as-notation plain

Function
--------



The **as-notation plain** command configures BGP 4-byte AS numbers to be displayed as an integer.

The **undo as-notation plain** command configures BGP 4-byte AS numbers to be displayed in dotted notation.



By default, BGP 4-byte AS numbers are displayed in dotted notation (in the format of x.y).


Format
------

**as-notation plain**

**undo as-notation plain**


Parameters
----------

None

Views
-----

System view


Default Level
-------------

2: Configuration level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**

By default, BGP 4-byte AS numbers are displayed in dotted notation. For example, 4-byte AS numbers in the output of a **display** command, such as the **display bgp peer** command, are displayed in dotted notation.To display a 4-byte AS number as an integer, run the **as-notation plain** command. After the **as-notation plain** command is run, **display** commands display all 4-byte AS numbers as integers. These 4-byte AS numbers include:

* 4-byte AS number that appears independently.
* 4-byte AS number in an extended community attribute.
* 4-byte AS number in a route distinguisher (RD).
* 4-byte AS number in a VPN target (RT).
* 4-byte AS number in the Site of Origin (SoO).A 4-byte AS number in integer format can be converted to a 4-byte AS number in dotted notation using the following formula: 4-byte AS number in integer format = x\*65536 + y. For example, a dotted 4-byte AS number 2.3 corresponds to the following 4-byte AS number in integer format: 2\*65536+3=131075.

**Precautions**

After the **as-notation plain** command is run, the formats of 4-byte AS numbers in configuration information generated by the system do not change.

* If 4-byte AS numbers are configured to be displayed as an integer, 4-byte AS numbers in the configuration information generated by the system are also displayed as integers.
* If 4-byte AS numbers are configured to be displayed in dotted notation, 4-byte AS numbers in the configuration information generated by the system are also displayed in dotted notation.If the system is using an AS\_Path regular expression or an extended community attribute filter as an import or export policy, changing the format of 4-byte AS numbers does not allow the received routes to pass the policy, but affects the policy matching result of newly received routes. Therefore, you need to reconfigure an AS\_Path regular expression using the **ip as-path-filter** command or an extended community attribute filter using the **ip extcommunity-filter** or **ip extcommunity-list soo** command after changing the format of 4-byte AS numbers. Otherwise, the policy cannot be matched as expected, causing network faults.
* If 4-byte AS numbers are configured to be displayed as an integer, change 4-byte AS numbers in AS\_Path regular expressions and extended community attribute filters to integral 4-byte AS numbers.
* If 4-byte AS numbers are configured to be displayed in dotted notation, change 4-byte AS numbers in AS\_Path regular expressions and extended community attribute filters to 4-byte AS numbers in dotted notation.


Example
-------

# Configure BGP 4-byte AS numbers to be displayed as an integer.
```
<HUAWEI> system-view
[~HUAWEI] as-notation plain

```