Setting the Time Zone, Date, and Time of the Device
===================================================

Setting the Time Zone, Date, and Time of the Device

#### Context

The system time on a device is randomly set upon device delivery. When the device is connected to a network, you must set the system time to the actual local time to ensure that the time in logs and alarms generated by the device is correct.


#### Procedure

1. Configure the time zone where the device is located.
   
   
   ```
   [clock timezone](cmdqueryname=clock+timezone) time-zone-name { add | minus } offset
   ```
   
   By default, a device uses the Universal Time Coordinated (UTC) time zone. The default time zone name is DefaultZoneName.
   
   
   
   **add**: adds the specified time zone offset to the UTC time. The sum of the default UTC time zone and *offset* equals the time zone specified by *time-zone-name*.
   
   **minus**: subtracts the specified time zone offset from the UTC. The remainder obtained by subtracting *offset* from the default UTC time zone equals the time zone specified by *time-zone-name*.
   
   The time format of a local log is *Original system time*±*offset specified in the time zone configuration command*, for example, Apr 27 2020 22:36:09+08:00.
2. Set the current date and time. 
   
   
   ```
   [clock datetime](cmdqueryname=clock+datetime) [ utc ] time date
   ```
   
   No default value is available. The value of *time* must be in the format HH:MM:SS, which indicates the current hour, minute, and second on the device. The value of *date* must be in the format of YYYY-MM-DD, which indicates the current year, month, and day on the device.
3. Commit the configuration.
   
   
   ```
   [commit](cmdqueryname=commit)
   ```