(Optional) Configuring Refined IPv4 Route Advertisement
=======================================================

Refined IPv4 route advertisement can classify routes and advertise them to different networks.

#### Context

User routes include routes generated by an address pool, and routes generated based on either the Framed-Route attribute or IP-Netmask attribute delivered by the RADIUS server. Management users can advertise routes to the management network while users accessing the Internet can advertise routes to the Internet. Routes are classified based on tags and imported using routing policies. This process allows various routes to be advertised to specific networks.


#### Procedure

* Configure a route tag for a specified type of address pool, such as local or remote address pools.
  1. Run [**system-view**](cmdqueryname=system-view)
     
     
     
     The system view is displayed.
  2. Run [**ip unr**](cmdqueryname=ip+unr) { **local-pool-tag** *tag-value* | **remote-pool-tag** *tag-value* | **framed-route-tag** *tag-value* | **framed-ip-netmask-tag** *tag-value* | **framed-ip-address-tag** *tag-value* } \*
     
     
     
     Route tags are configured for a specified type of address pool (e.g. local or remote address pool).
  3. Run [**commit**](cmdqueryname=commit)
     
     
     
     The configuration is committed.
* Configure a route tag for a single address pool.
  1. Run [**system-view**](cmdqueryname=system-view)
     
     
     
     The system view is displayed.
  2. Run [**ip pool**](cmdqueryname=ip+pool)
     
     
     
     The IP address pool view is displayed.
  3. Run [**unr tag**](cmdqueryname=unr+tag) *tag-value*
     
     
     
     A route tag is configured.
  4. Run [**commit**](cmdqueryname=commit)
     
     
     
     The configuration is committed.

#### Follow-up Procedure

Create a routing policy, specify a route tag to classify routes, and use OSPF or BGP to import various routes. For details, see "Routing Policy Configuration."