Configuring IS-IS Hostnames
===========================

Configuring IS-IS Hostnames

#### Context

The IS-IS hostname mapping mechanism maps hostnames to system IDs for IS-IS devices, covering both dynamic and static hostname mapping. Dynamic hostname mapping takes precedence over static hostname mapping. When both a dynamic hostname and a static hostname are configured, the dynamic hostname takes effect.

If you check IS-IS neighbor or LSDB information on an IS-IS routing device with hostname mapping disabled, each device is represented by a 12-digit hexadecimal system ID (for example, aaaa.eeee.1234). This representation is complicated and not easy to use. The hostname mapping mechanism facilitates IS-IS network management and maintenance.

After hostname mapping is configured, it takes effect as follows:

* When an IS-IS neighbor is displayed, the system ID of the IS-IS neighbor is replaced by its hostname. When the neighbor is the DIS, the system ID of the DIS is also replaced by its hostname.
* When you check LSP information in the IS-IS LSDB, the system ID displayed in each LSP ID is replaced by the hostname of the IS-IS device that advertised the LSP.
* When you check detailed information about the IS-IS LSDB, the system ID displayed in the **Hostname** field of each LSP generated by a device with dynamic hostname mapping enabled is replaced by the dynamic hostname of the device that sent the LSP.

After dynamic hostname mapping is enabled on a device, the device advertises dynamic hostname information to its neighbors through TLV 137 (Dynamic Hostname TLV) in LSPs. If you check IS-IS information on any of these neighbors, the displayed device's system ID is replaced by the configured hostname, which is easier to identify and remember.

A dynamic hostname can exist anywhere in an LSP. The value of this TLV cannot be empty. You can configure a device whether to encapsulate TLV 137 in the LSPs to be sent to neighbors, and you can also configure the neighbors to ignore TLV 137 carried in the received LSPs, or to obtain TLV 137 content and add it to their mapping tables.

Static hostname mapping allows you to configure the mapping between hostnames and system IDs for other IS-IS devices. Static hostname mapping only takes effect locally and is not advertised through LSPs.


#### Procedure

1. Enter the system view.
   
   
   ```
   [system-view](cmdqueryname=system-view)
   ```
2. Create an IS-IS process, and enter the IS-IS view.
   
   
   ```
   [isis](cmdqueryname=isis) [ process-id ] [ vpn-instance vpn-instance-name ]
   ```
3. Configure IS-IS dynamic hostname mapping.
   
   
   ```
   [is-name](cmdqueryname=is-name) symbolic-name
   ```
   
   
   
   After the command is run on the device, the configured hostname *symbolic-name* is advertised to its IS-IS neighbors in the area through LSPs.
   
   The configured *symbolic-name*, rather than the system ID of the local device, is displayed on the IS-IS neighbors that receive the LSPs when IS-IS information is checked on those neighbors.
4. Configure static hostname mapping.
   
   
   ```
   [is-name map](cmdqueryname=is-name+map) system-id symbolic-name
   ```
   
   
   
   The *symbolic-name* configured for a remote IS-IS device only takes effect locally and is not advertised through LSPs.
   
   Dynamic hostname mapping configured on the remote IS-IS device overrides any static hostname mapping configured on the local device.
5. Commit the configuration.
   
   
   ```
   [commit](cmdqueryname=commit)
   ```

#### Verifying the Configuration

Run the [**display isis name-table**](cmdqueryname=display+isis+name-table) [ *process-id* | **vpn-instance** *vpn-instance-name* ] command to check the mapping between local and remote device names and system IDs.