peer default-route-advertise(BGP view)(group)
=============================================

peer default-route-advertise(BGP view)(group)

Function
--------



The **peer default-route-advertise** command configures a device to advertise default routes to a peer group.

The **undo peer default-route-advertise** command restores the default configuration.



By default, a device does not advertise default routes to a peer group.


Format
------

**peer** *group-name* **default-route-advertise** [ **route-policy** *route-policy-name* ]

**peer** *group-name* **default-route-advertise** [ **route-policy** *route-policy-name* ] { **conditional-route-match-all** | **conditional-route-match-any** } { *ipv4-address* { *mask-length* | *mask* } } &<1-4>

**undo peer** *group-name* **default-route-advertise**


Parameters
----------

| Parameter | Description | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *group-name* | Specifies the name of a peer group. | The name is a string of 1 to 47 case-sensitive characters, with spaces not supported. When double quotation marks are used around the string, spaces are allowed in the string. |
| **route-policy** *route-policy-name* | Specifies the name of a routing policy. | The value is a string of 1 to 200 case-sensitive characters without spaces. The character string can contain spaces if it is enclosed with double quotation marks ("). |
| **conditional-route-match-all** | The default routes are sent to the peer group only when all the conditional routes are matched. | - |
| **conditional-route-match-any** | The default routes are sent to the peer group if any conditional route is matched. | - |
| *ipv4-address* | Specifies the IPv4 address of a peer. | The value is in dotted decimal notation. |
| *mask-length* | Specifies the mask length of the conditional routes. | The value is an integer ranging from 0 to 32. |
| *mask* | Specifies the mask of the conditional routes. | The value is in dotted decimal notation. |



Views
-----

BGP-IPv4 unicast address family view,BGP view


Default Level
-------------

2: Configuration level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**

Default routes are usually used on networks with the following characteristics:

* There are multiple EBGP peers, and full Internet routes are received from each peer.
* There are multiple RRs, and each RR receives full Internet routes.If load balancing is not performed on a network, a BGP peer receives at most one copy of active full Internet routes. If load balancing is performed on a network, the number of active routes received by a BGP peer increases sharply, causing the number of routes on the network to sharply increase. In this case, you can configure the device to advertise default routes to BGP peer groups and use default routes for load balancing to reduce the number of routes on the network.This command does not require a default route in the routing table. Instead, the device unconditionally sends a default route with the next hop being itself to the peer group.

**Precautions**

This command enables the device to advertise the default route generated by itself, and condition-based matching is not used. Therefore, you are not advised to configure if-match clauses in a route-policy.


Example
-------

# Configure a BGP device to advertise default routes to its peer group.
```
<HUAWEI> system-view
[~HUAWEI] bgp 100
[*HUAWEI-bgp] group test external
[*HUAWEI-bgp] peer test as-number 200
[*HUAWEI-bgp] peer test default-route-advertise

```