Multicast Routing and Forwarding
================================

Devices on a multicast network need to maintain different types of tables depending on their roles: IGMP group table, multicast protocol routing table, multicast routing table, and multicast forwarding table. Each multicast routing protocol creates and maintains its own routing table. The multicast routing information of all multicast routing protocols is summarized into one multicast routing table. According to the multicast routing and forwarding policies, each device then selects the optimal multicast routes from the multicast routing table and delivers the optimal routes to the multicast forwarding table to control multicast data forwarding. The following describes the functions of these tables in multicast routing and forwarding.

#### IGMP Group Table

An IGMP group table is created when a host sends an IGMP Join message. This table is used to maintain group joining information and enable a multicast routing protocol (generally PIM) to create (\*, G) entries. A group joining entry is maintained for each interface as long as the interface is enabled with IGMP and receives a group Join message.


#### Multicast Protocol Routing Table

A multicast protocol routing table, which is the basis for multicast routing and forwarding, contains the entries that are maintained solely by the multicast protocol running on the device. PIM is currently the most widely used multicast routing protocol. For details, see [PIM Configuration](vrp_pim_cfg_0000.html).


#### Multicast Routing Table

A multicast routing table is generated by the multicast route management module. If multiple multicast protocols are supported for multicast route management, the optimal routes generated by these protocols can all be found in the multicast routing table. This table is similar to the IP routing table generated when multiple unicast routing protocols, such as OSPF, RIP, and BGP, are running on a device. From this multicast routing table, the optimal multicast routes are selected and then delivered to a multicast forwarding table.


#### Multicast Forwarding Table

A multicast forwarding table, also referred to as multicast forwarding information base (MFIB), is generated by the route management module based on a multicast routing table to guide multicast data forwarding. A multicast forwarding table consists of a group of (S, G) entries, where (S, G) indicates the routing information of the multicast data sent by multicast source S to multicast group G. The MFIB, functioning similarly to the forwarding information base (FIB) in unicast forwarding, also records brief statistics about packet forwarding in addition to guiding the forwarding of multicast data.