vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable
=======================================

vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable

Function
--------



The **vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable** command disables a dynamic routing protocol from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group.

The **undo vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable** command enables a dynamic routing protocol to advertise the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group.



By default, a dynamic routing protocol advertises the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group.


Format
------

**vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable**

**vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable** { **isis** | **ospf** | **rip** } \*

**undo vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable**


Parameters
----------

| Parameter | Description | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| **isis** | Disables IS-IS from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group. | - |
| **ospf** | Disables OSPF from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group. | - |
| **rip** | Disables RIP from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group. | - |



Views
-----

System view


Default Level
-------------

2: Configuration level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**

The direct routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group can be imported by a dynamic routing protocol. By default, this kind of route can be advertised by an IGP to the neighboring devices. On actual networks, there may be a large number of routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group. If all of the routes are imported and advertised to the neighboring devices by a dynamic routing protocol, heavy loads are imposed on some devices on the networks, which affects network performance. To resolve this issue, run the **vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable** command to disable an IGP from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of the VRRP group.You can specify a dynamic routing protocol as required.

* If you specify isis, a device disables IS-IS from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group.
* If you specify ospf, a device disables OSPF from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group.
* If you specify rip, a device disables RIP from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group.

**Prerequisites**

* A virtual IP address has been configured for a VRRP group.
* The routes generated by the virtual IP address of the VRRP group have been imported by a dynamic routing protocol.

**Configuration Impact**



After the **vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable** command has been configured, none of the routes generated by the virtual IP address of the VRRP group can be advertised by dynamic routing protocols.



**Precautions**

Currently, the **vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable** command is valid only for OSPF, IS-IS, and RIP.If a dynamic routing protocol needs to advertise the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group, do not run the **vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable** command.


Example
-------

# Disable a dynamic routing protocol from advertising the routes generated by the virtual IP address of a VRRP group.
```
<HUAWEI> system-view
[~HUAWEI] vrrp virtual-ip route-advertise disable

```