Outputting Information to an Information File
=============================================

Information output to the information file can be saved on the device in the format of files. This allows users to quickly locate the fault occurring on the device based on the information.

#### Context

The configuration saves the log and trap information generated by the system to a specified path every 30 minutes so that users can view local historical operations to ensure the normal running of the device.

The system can record what happens to a device during the device operation in the format of information files in real time. This allows users to know what happened to the device during the device operation and locate the fault cause based on the information files.


#### Procedure

* Configure the system to automatically output information to an information file.
  1. Run [**system-view**](cmdqueryname=system-view)
     
     
     
     The system view is displayed.
  2. (Optional) Run [**info-center logfile**](cmdqueryname=info-center+logfile) [ **security** ] **size** *size*
     
     
     
     The size of an information file is configured.
     
     If the size of an information file exceeds the configuration, the system automatically compresses the information file into a .zip file.
  3. (Optional) Run [**info-center max-logfile-number**](cmdqueryname=info-center+max-logfile-number) [ **security** ] *filenumbers*
     
     
     
     The maximum number of compressed files that the system can save is configured.
     
     If the number of compressed files to be saved exceeds the threshold, the system deletes compressed files that are generated earlier to ensure that the number of compressed files to be saved remains less than or equal to the threshold.
  4. (Optional) Run [**info-center channel**](cmdqueryname=info-center+channel) *channel-number* **name** *channel-name*
     
     
     
     The information channel specified by *channel-number* is named *channel-name*.
  5. (Optional) Run [**info-center logfile channel**](cmdqueryname=info-center+logfile+channel) { *channel-number* | *channel-name* }
     
     
     
     The channel through which information is output to the information file is configured.
  6. Run [**info-center source**](cmdqueryname=info-center+source) { *module-name* | **default** } **channel** { *channel-number* | *channel-name* } [ **log** { **state** { **off** | **on** } | **level** *log-level* } \* | **trap** { **state** { **off** | **on** } | **level** *trap-level* } \* ] \*
     
     
     
     Rules for outputting information through information channels are configured.
  7. Run [**commit**](cmdqueryname=commit)
     
     
     
     The configuration is committed.
* Manually output information to the information file.
  1. Run [**system-view**](cmdqueryname=system-view)
     
     
     
     The system view is displayed.
  2. (Optional) Run [**info-center logfile**](cmdqueryname=info-center+logfile) [ **security** ] **size** *size*
     
     
     
     The size of an information file is configured. If the size of an information file exceeds the configuration, the system automatically compresses the information file into a .zip file.
  3. (Optional) Run [**info-center max-logfile-number**](cmdqueryname=info-center+max-logfile-number) [ **security** ] *filenumbers*
     
     
     
     The maximum number of compressed files that the system can save is configured.
     
     If the number of compressed files to be saved exceeds the threshold, the system deletes compressed files that are generated earlier to ensure that the number of compressed files to be saved remains less than or equal to the threshold.
  4. Run [**commit**](cmdqueryname=commit)
     
     
     
     The configuration is committed.
  5. Run [**quit**](cmdqueryname=quit)
     
     
     
     Return to the user view.
  6. Run [**save logfile**](cmdqueryname=save+logfile)
     
     
     
     Information is saved to the information file.