802.1X Re-authentication
========================

802.1X Re-authentication

#### Users Who Have Passed 802.1X Authentication

If the administrator modifies parameters such as access rights and authorization attributes of an online user on the authentication server, the user needs to be re-authenticated to ensure user validity. If re-authentication is configured for online 802.1X users, the device sends online users' authentication parameters that it has saved upon users' going online to the authentication server for re-authentication. If the authentication information of a user on the authentication server remains unchanged, the user remains online. If the information has been modified, the user is disconnected and needs to be re-authenticated. [Table 1](#EN-US_CONCEPT_0000001564000509__t01) describes the re-authentication modes for users who have passed 802.1X authentication.

**Table 1** Re-authentication modes for users who have passed 802.1X authentication
| Configuration Completed On | Method | Command |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Access device | Perform periodic re-authentication for users who have passed 802.1X authentication. | [**dot1x reauthenticate**](cmdqueryname=dot1x+reauthenticate)  [**dot1x timer**](cmdqueryname=dot1x+timer) **reauthenticate-period** *reauthenticate-period-value* |
| RADIUS server | Deliver the standard RADIUS attributes Session-Timeout and Termination-Action. Session-Timeout specifies the online duration timer value of a user. If the value of Termination-Action is set to 1, the user is re-authenticated when the online duration timer expires. When the online duration of the user reaches the value of Session-Timeout, the access device re-authenticates the user. | N/A |



#### Users in Abnormal Authentication State

The device records entries for pre-connection users and users who fail authentication, and assigns network access rights to the users accordingly. To ensure that the users are successfully authenticated in a timely manner and obtain normal network access rights, you can configure the device to re-authenticate users who fail authentication based on user entries.

If a user fails re-authentication before the aging time of the user entry expires, the device deletes the user entry and reclaims the network access rights assigned to the user. If a user passes re-authentication, the device adds the user entry to the entry table of authenticated users and assigns corresponding network access rights to the user. [Table 2](#EN-US_CONCEPT_0000001564000509__t02) describes the methods of configuring re-authentication for users in abnormal authentication state.

**Table 2** Methods of configuring re-authentication for users in abnormal authentication state
| User State | Configuration Command |
| --- | --- |
| RADIUS server down | **authentication event authen-server-up action re-authen**: enables user re-authentication when the RADIUS server is up. |
| Authentication failure | **authentication timer re-authen** **authen-fail** *authen-fail-time*: enables periodic re-authentication for users who fail authentication. |
| Pre-connection | **authentication timer re-authen** **pre-authen** *pre-authen-time*: enables periodic re-authentication for users in pre-connection state. |