Configuring IPv6 IS-IS Hostnames
================================

Configuring IPv6 IS-IS Hostnames

#### Prerequisites

Before configuring IPv6 IS-IS hostnames, you have completed the following task:

* [Configure basic IPv6 IS-IS functions](vrp_isis_ipv6_cfg_0011.html).

#### Context

The IS-IS hostname mapping mechanism maps hostnames to system IDs for IS-IS devices, covering both dynamic and static hostname mapping. As dynamic hostname mapping takes precedence, when both dynamic and static hostnames exist, the dynamic hostname takes effect.

If you check IS-IS neighbor or LSDB information on an IS-IS routing device with dynamic hostname mapping disabled, each device is represented by a 12-digit hexadecimal system ID (for example, aaaa.eeee.1234). As this type of representation is complicated and difficult to use, you can simplify IS-IS network management and maintenance by configuring dynamic hostname mapping.

After dynamic hostname exchange is configured, it takes effect as follows:

* When you check IS-IS neighbor information, the system IDs of displayed IS-IS neighbors (including the DIS) are replaced by their hostnames.
* When you check LSP information in the IS-IS LSDB, the system ID in each LSP ID displayed is replaced by the hostname of the IS-IS device that advertised the LSP.
* When you check detailed information about the IS-IS LSDB, the system ID displayed in the **Hostname** field of each LSP generated by a device with dynamic hostname mapping enabled is replaced by the dynamic hostname of the device that sent the LSP.
  
  After dynamic hostname mapping is enabled on a device, the device advertises dynamic hostname information to its neighbors through TLV 137 (Dynamic Hostname TLV) in LSPs. If you check IS-IS information on any of these neighbors, the displayed device's system ID is replaced by the configured hostname, which is easier to identify and remember.
  
  Dynamic hostnames can exist anywhere in LSPs. The value of this TLV cannot be empty. You can configure a device whether to encapsulate TLV 137 in the LSPs to be sent to neighbors, and you can also configure the neighbors to ignore TLV 137 carried in the received LSPs, or to obtain TLV 137 content and add it to their mapping tables.
  
  Static hostname mapping allows you to configure the mapping between hostnames and system IDs for other IS-IS devices. Static hostname mapping only takes effect locally and is not advertised through LSPs.


#### Procedure

1. Enter the system view.
   
   
   ```
   [system-view](cmdqueryname=system-view)
   ```
2. Create an IS-IS process, and enter the IS-IS view.
   
   
   ```
   [isis](cmdqueryname=isis) [ process-id ] [ vpn-instance vpn-instance-name ]
   ```
3. Configure dynamic IS-IS hostname mapping.
   
   
   ```
   [is-name](cmdqueryname=is-name) symbolic-name
   ```
   
   
   
   After the command is run on the device, the configured hostname *symbolic-name* is advertised to its IS-IS neighbors in the area through LSPs.
   
   The configured hostname (*symbolic-name*), rather than the system ID of the local device, is displayed on the IS-IS neighbors that receive the LSPs when IS-IS information is checked on these neighbors.
4. Configure static IS-IS hostname mapping.
   
   
   ```
   [is-name map](cmdqueryname=is-name+map) system-id symbolic-name
   ```
   
   
   
   The hostname configured for a remote IS-IS device only takes effect locally and is not advertised through LSPs.
   
   Dynamic hostname mapping configured on the remote IS-IS device overrides any static hostname mapping configured on the local device.
5. Commit the configuration.
   
   
   ```
   [commit](cmdqueryname=commit)
   ```

#### Verifying the Configuration

Run the [**display isis name-table**](cmdqueryname=display+isis+name-table) [ *process-id* | **vpn-instance** *vpn-instance-name* ] command to check the mapping between local and remote device names and system IDs.