Security Mechanisms
===================

SSL provides the following security mechanisms:

* [Identity Authentication](#EN-US_CONCEPT_0000001563872521__section19139015332): Digital signing is used to authenticate a server and client that attempt to communicate with each other. Authenticating the client's identity is optional.
* [Data Encryption](#EN-US_CONCEPT_0000001563872521__section271372643310): The symmetric key algorithm is used to encrypt the transmitted data.
* [Message Integrity Check](#EN-US_CONCEPT_0000001563872521__section17284204910336): The message authentication code (MAC) algorithm is used to verify message integrity during message transmission.

#### Identity Authentication

The client verifies the identity of the SSL server to ensure that important information is not being stolen. SSL uses digital signatures to authenticate the communicating parties.

Digital signatures are implemented using an asymmetric key algorithm. Data encrypted by a private key can only be decrypted by the matching public key. Therefore, if the receiver successfully decrypts the data, the receiver considers the sender valid. For example, Alice uses her own private key to encrypt a segment of fixed information, and sends the encrypted information to Bob, who uses Alice's public key to decrypt the information. If the decrypted segment is the same as the fixed information, Bob considers that the information sender is Alice.

In this process, the authenticity of the sender's public key must be guaranteed. Otherwise, unauthorized users may leverage a fake public key to communicate with the receiver. SSL guarantees the authenticity of the sender's public key by publishing the public key in a digital certificate.

A digital certificate (certificate for short) is a digitally signed file that includes information about a public key and identity of its owner, proving the ownership of a public key. Digital certificates are issued by a Certificate Authority (CA). When issuing a digital certificate, the CA also provides a trusted-CA file to prove its own identity and ensure the authenticity of the issued certificate.

When an SSL server and SSL client attempt to communicate, the SSL server or client needs to send the certificate obtained from the CA to the peer, which verifies the authenticity of the certificate based on the trusted-CA file. If the authenticity of the certificate is verified, the peer uses the public key in the certificate to verify the identity of the sender.


#### Data Encryption

Data transmitted on the network can be easily stolen by unauthorized users. Therefore, SSL establishes an encrypted channel between the communicating parties to ensure data confidentiality.

The sender uses an encryption algorithm and key to encrypt data before sending the data through the encrypted channel to the receiver. The receiver then uses a decryption algorithm and key to obtain clear text from the received data. As such, a third party that does not know the decryption key cannot obtain clear text from the received data. In this way, confidentiality of data transmission is ensured.

Two types of encryption/decryption algorithms are available:

* Asymmetric key algorithm: uses different keys for data encryption and decryption. Data encrypted using a public key can be decrypted only using the matching private key (the reverse is also true). This type of algorithm is usually used to encrypt a small amount of information.
* Symmetric key algorithm: uses the same key for data encryption and decryption. This type of algorithm features fast calculation, and is usually used to encrypt a large amount of information (for example, all transmitted packets).

SSL uses an asymmetric key algorithm RSA, Diffie-Hellman, or ECDHE to encrypt the premaster secret randomly generated by a client. The client and server compute the same master secret to generate the key used by a symmetric key algorithm. Then, the symmetric key algorithm is used to encrypt and decrypt the transmitted data.


#### Message Integrity Check

To prevent data transmitted on the network from being tampered with, SSL uses the key-based MAC algorithm to ensure message integrity.

The MAC algorithm computes a key and arbitrary-length data to generate a MAC.

* The sender uses the MAC algorithm and a key to compute a MAC and adds it to the end of the message before sending the message to the receiver.
* The receiver uses the same key and MAC algorithm to compute a MAC and compares the computed MAC with the MAC in the received message.

If the two MACs are the same, the message has not been tampered during transmission. If they are different, the message has been tampered with during transmission, and the receiver will discard the message accordingly.