snmp-agent notify-filter-profile
================================

snmp-agent notify-filter-profile

Function
--------



The **snmp-agent notify-filter-profile** command creates or updates the trap filtering information, supports configuration up to 20.

The **undo snmp-agent notify-filter-profile** command deletes the created or updated trap filtering information.



By default, no trap messages are filtered.


Format
------

**snmp-agent notify-filter-profile** *type* *profile-name* *oid-tree*

**undo snmp-agent notify-filter-profile** [ *type* ] *profile-name* [ *oid-tree* ]


Parameters
----------

| Parameter | Description | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *type* | Specifies the filter type. | * excluded: Excludes the MIB subtree. * included: Includes the MIB subtree. |
| *profile-name* | Specifies a profile name. | The value is a string of 1 to 32 characters, spaces not supported.  When quotation marks are used around the string, spaces are allowed in the string. |
| *oid-tree* | Specifies the object subtree name, that is, the OID value of a MIB object. | The value is a string of 1 to 255 numeric characters, in dotted decimal notation. |



Views
-----

System view


Default Level
-------------

3: Management level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**

To filter trap messages sent to a target host, run the **snmp-agent notify-filter-profile** command to add the MIB objects to be filtered to a filter profile to limit the number of MIB objects that can send trap messages to the NMS. After the filter profile is configured using the **snmp-agent notify-filter-profile** command, only the trap messages generated by eligible MIB objects are sent to the NMS.

**Precautions**

If notify-filter-profile is not configured, all trap messages are sent to the target host.The **snmp-agent notify-filter-profile** command supports either the variable OID of a character string or an object name. For a character string, \* can be used as the mask.Note:The \* symbol can be placed only in the middle, not at the beginning or end of the string.In Include filtering mode of an alarm, OIDs of all bound variables in the alarm must be specified in this command. Otherwise, the alarm filtering fails.In Exclude filtering mode of an alarm, only the OID of the alarm or that of any bound variable needs to be specified in this command.


Example
-------

# Configure a filter profile named tmp.
```
<HUAWEI> system-view
[~HUAWEI] snmp-agent notify-filter-profile included tmp 1.3.6.1.*.4

```