lsdb-overflow-limit
===================

lsdb-overflow-limit

Function
--------



The **lsdb-overflow-limit** command configures a maximum number of external routes supported by the OSPF LSDB.

The **undo lsdb-overflow-limit** command deletes the configured maximum number of external routes supported by the OSPF LSDB.



By default, the maximum number of external routes supported by the OSPF LSDB is not set.


Format
------

**lsdb-overflow-limit** *number*

**undo lsdb-overflow-limit** [ *number* ]


Parameters
----------

| Parameter | Description | Value |
| --- | --- | --- |
| *number* | Specifies the maximum number of external routes supported by the OSPF LSDB. | The value is an integer ranging from 1 to 1000000. |



Views
-----

OSPF view


Default Level
-------------

2: Configuration level


Usage Guidelines
----------------

**Usage Scenario**

If OSPF incorrectly imports a large number of external routes on a network, the device may fail to process the routes due to resource limitations.To address this problem, run the **lsdb-overflow-limit** command to set the maximum number of external routes in the OSPF LSDB. If the number of external routes imported by OSPF exceeds the maximum number allowed by the LSDB, the device deletes the non-default external routes generated by itself and maintains normal forwarding of other external routes imported by OSPF.The OSPF is in LSDB overflow status field in the **display ospf brief** command output indicates that the current OSPF process is in the overload state. OSPF LSDB is approaching overflow limit: indicates that the number of external routes in the OSPF LSDB reaches 90% of the maximum number.Alarms about the number of external routes in the OSPF LSDB are described as follows:

* When the number of external routes in the OSPF LSDB reaches 90% of the maximum number, the device generates the OSPF\_1.3.6.1.4.1.2011.5.25.155.31.15 hwOspfv2LsdbApproachingOverflow alarm.
* When the preceding alarm is cleared, the device generates the OSPF\_1.3.6.1.4.1.2011.5.25.155.31.16 hwOspfv2LsdbApproachingOverflowClear alarm. When the number of external routes in the OSPF LSDB exceeds the maximum number, the device generates the OSPF\_1.3.6.1.4.1.2011.5.25.155.31.17 hwOspfv2LsdbOverflow alarm.When the number of external routes in the OSPF LSDB falls below the maximum number, the device generates the OSPF\_1.3.6.1.4.1.2011.5.25.155.31.18 hwOspfv2LsdbOverflowClear alarm.

**Precautions**

The **lsdb-overflow-limit** command is used to set the maximum number of external routes in the LSDB. If this command is deleted, LSDB overload may be triggered.


Example
-------

# Set the maximum number of external routes supported by the OSPF LSDB to 400000.
```
<HUAWEI> system-view
[~HUAWEI] ospf 100
[*HUAWEI-ospf-100] lsdb-overflow-limit 400000

```